1
Q - You have 20 bottles of pills. 19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight
T.I grams. Given a scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find
the heavy bottle? You can only use the scale once.

A - pick 1 pill form bottle 1, 2 pills from bottle 2,... 20 pills from bottle 20.
Measure. The bottle that's overweight can be determined form how many grams over the total is. 
E.g. if it's bottle 14, the total will be 1.4 grams over.

2
Q - There is an 8x8 chess board in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut
off. You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares.
Can you use the 31 dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by
providing an example or showing why it's impossible).

A - No. Any Domino will always take up one black square and one white square. So there would have to be 31 black squares and 31 white squares.
A board with 2 diagonally opposite corners cut out, will have either 30 black, 32 white, or 32 black, 30 white.

3
Q -You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but
no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water?
Note that the jugs are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly "half" of the jug
would be impossible.

A -  Fill 5 quart jug, pour enough to fill 3 quart jug, You have 2 left. Empty 3 quart, pour 2 quarts in it. Fill up 5 quart jug, fill up
3 quart jug from 5 quart jug. You have 4 quarts left in 5 quart.

4
Q A bunch of people are living on an island, when a visitor comes with a strange order:
all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight
out at 8:00pm every evening. Each person can see everyone else's eye color, but they
do not know their own (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not
know how many people have blue eyes, a/though they do know that at least one
person does. How many days will it take the blue-eyed people to leave?

A - If 1 Person, he will leave on the first night.
If 2 ppl, both ov them will know that the 1 other blue eyed person that they can see has not left, will conclude that they are blue eyed too and leave the 2nd night.
If 3 ppl, .....,will leave on the 3rd night.
If N ppl, will leave on night N.

5
Q There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or above, it
will break. If it's dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You're given two
eggs. Find N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case.

A - The solution is to minimise the sum of the 1st egg drop and 2nd egg drop. So the first egg is dropped
14 floors up, then if it breaks, the second egg is dropped a max of 13 floors, for a total of 14. If the first egg
doesn,t break, we can drop it 13 floors higher and if it breaks, the second egg can only be dropped a max of 12 times,
for a total of 13. Etc.

6
Q There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers.
Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third
locker (closes it if it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for / 00
passes, such that on each pass i, the man toggles every ith locker. After his 100th
pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker #100, how many lockers are
open?

A - The door will only be open if it's toggled an odd number of times, e.i. it has an odd number of factors including one and itself.
the only numbers that have an odd number of factors are perfect squares, because for any number factos are pairs, e.g. (16,1), (8,2)
, but(4,4)or (n,n) only counts as one factor. There are 10 perfect squares, betwwen 1 and 100.

